---
layout: post
title: Self Reflection Wk 12
description: Assessment 4 Self Reflection

main-image: project-image.webp
---
---
# Reflection
I’m coming to the conclusion of my penultimate year of a double degree in Mechanical Engineering and Business Analytics, I’ve learnt a lot. As a product of doing both of these degrees I’ve had experience in everything from thermodynamics, fluid dynamics, structural mechanics, comprehensive design as well as coding, statistical analysis, machine learning and finally many experiences in marketing, management, finance and brand development honestly just to name a few. This has been invaluable to me, I’ve had experience across such broad and diverse fields and when comparing myself to the average engineering graduate or commerce graduate, I can confidently say that I have developed my skills in a broader sense than most.

Throughout this time studying so many of these varied fields, I believe I have developed a valuable balance between technical ability and strategic/ business oriented thinking. This multidisciplinary approach  I believe has shaped my employability. If we take time to look at Tomlinson’s graduate capitals, especially Human, Social and Identity. I believe that I have cultivated the technical expertise and  professional mindset that will enable me to align with the dynamic and changing needs/ expectations of the modern workforce.

Have a paragraph here about the two graduate capital reflections and scores and changes (300 words)      
My scores havent changed majorly between my assessment in the start of the semester and now. Previously my Human Capital was a 43/50, which has increased to a 45/50,  My social capital was 39/50 which has increased minorly to 40/50, my cultural was 47/50 which has increased to a 48/50, My identity Capital remained constant at 45/50 and my psychological capital actually seemed to decreased from 46/50 to 44/50! I feel that despite the slight decrease in psychological capital I have grown over this semester and have seen significant positive increase in a range of different aspects over the semester

I will talk more broadly about what I’ve done well over my entire degree, but BEX3500 in particular has been transformative in a couple aspects. Much of what related to putting myself out there, creating resumes, cover letters etc I have been doing and attempting to perfect for years. What I have reflected on and found is that it really is your network  and who you know. Something that I desperately wanted to be able to avoid, and be able to get my upon my own merit. However, in this current job market, it's no longer enough for employers to just be impressive; it significantly helps if you know someone, and if you actively pursue your individual social capital, that's what leads to places. Resultingly, this is something I’ve actively been implementing and pursuing, from actively interacting at networking events, to maintaining close connections with sponsors, leaning upon friends and family for their industry connections, never before has my professional network been as strong, and this is something i felt has been heavily influenced by this subject. 

Some other aspects of this course that have been relevant to my professional development has been the development of more of an intuition as to individual differences in personality and psychometrics that can have massive impact on peoples ability to work together. More specifically, online testing tools such as the Portrait Values Questionnaire (PVQ) by (aida form) and based upon work by social psychologist Shalom Schwartz in the late 80s was instrumental in quantifying how i’m affected by some of those differences. For example, I scored low in conformity, middle in tradition, power and security, and highly in Benevolence, Universalism, Self direction, Hedonism, and Achievement. Loosely summarised and interpreted into 4 main traits this means I scored very highly in my openness to change, self transcendence and self-enhancement, but comparatively lower in my conservatism. When comparing this to other psychological tests like the Holland code developed by psychologist John L. Holland where I scored an IEA, for being a thinker, persuader, and creator. Of these, some of the key personality traits associated are being curious, independent, intuitive and analytical,  and it was validating to see how these align with my PVQ profile. Together, these tools have deepened my self-awareness and helped me appreciate how personality differences shape team dynamics, leadership styles, and workplace compatibility.

As part of this unit, I had the opportunity to work with two separate teams, one as part of the multiple-week simulation case study and another as part of the group project presenting on a company's identity capital (Tomlinson). The business simulation required a combination of strategic decision-making and collaboration under time pressure. It was one of the first times I had to apply myself to a solely business scenario to solve a problem; this is a challenge I face all the time in engineering units, but I've not undertaken it in a business environment. I learnt a lot about working in a team here; this is something I’ve had extensive experience with before, but it was interesting to see the principles behind project management applying across both disciplines.

The simulation task revealed certain elements about my ability to work in a team as well, my high level of independence and self direction led to me assuming a degree of leadership within the team quite quickly,  which limited space for others to contribute creatively. Over time, I learned to balance direction with inclusion - a skill that has improved my confidence and interpersonal adaptability.

One of my key strengths in the simulation activity in particular, was my ability to integrate data-driven reasoning from my business analytics degree into the team's decision-making, basic levels of statistical analysis, and key business concepts became applicable in a well fleshed out scenario. My engineering, problem-solving mindset was key here, where it was less about solving a structured problem with one correct answer like is seen in most tests and exams, and more about coming up with justified, stratified solutions to a multifaceted problem.

The e-portfolio project has been especially valuable, it's something I had already completed for myself before this subject came around. But this subject has fleshed it out significantly. Now this e-portfolio presents not just some of the projects I have been a part of, but it also provides a structured way to demonstrate my graduate capitals to future employers. It allows me to evidence real examples of initiative, problem solving, reflection and analytical skills - showcasing my growth beyond academic achievements and work history on my resume.

The BEX3500 experience has been instrumental in bridging the gap between my technical engineering identity and a more managerial and business oriented perspective. By engaging with a number of reflection tools and frameworks. I believe I have become more intentional about how I am presenting my professional narrative. The integration of both of these degrees positions me well for roles that value analytical thinking, project coordination and an ability to cooperate with interdisciplinary teams. 
The e-portfolio project has been especially valuable, providing a structured way to demonstrate my Graduate Capitals to future employers. It allows me to evidence real examples of leadership, problem-solving, and analytical skills — showcasing my growth beyond academic achievement.

Looking ahead, the continuous development of my e-portfolio will be central to communicating my employability. It not only demonstrates my competencies but also articulates my professional identity and career values -  key elements of Identity Capital as defined by Tomlinson (2017).
I believe the graduate capital that I have best developed during this semester is my social capital. Previously to this semester this wasn't a dimension that I had actively attempted to flesh out and improve. As evidenced by my initial graduate capital results and my connection maps, much of my connections were social or through university groups. This kind of social connections are excellent but in terms of finding graduate opportunities its important to flesh out your social capital with people in positions that can offer you opportunities.

This is something that I have actively attempted to do, everything from leaning on my current connections for their connections in high places, to actively reaching out to sponsors and people in industry through my university connections. I feel at the culmination of this semester I have significantly improved this dimension, and it's led to me having a lot more interactions with recruiters and companies.

# References

1. BigFive-Test. (n.d.). About and the Big Five team – Free open-source BigFive persona

2. Tomlinson, M. (2017). Forms of graduate capital and their relationship to graduate employability. Education & Training (London), 59(4), 338–352. https://doi.org/10.1108/ET-05-2016-0090

---
[Graduate Self Capital Assessment Beginning of Sem](/assets/persontesting/GraduateCapitalSelfassessment.pdf)
[Graduate Capital Scoring](/assets/persontesting/HumanCapital2.pdf)
[Graduate Self Capital Assessment End of Sem](/assets/persontesting/GraduateCapitalCareerSelfAssessment.pdf)
[Graduate Capital Scoring 2](/assets/persontesting/GraduateCapitalSelfassessment.pdf)